---
title: OpenAIMockResponsePlugin
description: OpenAIMockResponsePlugin reference
author: waldekmastykarz
ms.author: wmastyka
ms.date: 04/30/2025
---

# OpenAIMockResponsePlugin

Simulates responses from Azure OpenAI and OpenAI using a local language model.

:::image type="content" source="../media/openai-mock-response-plugin.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a command prompt with Dev Proxy simulating response for a request to Azure OpenAI API." lightbox="../media/openai-mock-response-plugin.png":::

## Plugin instance definition

```json
{
  "name": "OpenAIMockResponsePlugin",
  "enabled": true,
  "pluginPath": "~appFolder/plugins/DevProxy.Plugins.dll"
}
```

## Configuration example

None

## Configuration properties

None

## Command line options

None

## Remarks

The `OpenAIMockResponsePlugin` plugin simulates responses from Azure OpenAI and OpenAI using a local language model. Using this plugin allows you to emulate using a language model in your app without connecting to the OpenAI or Azure OpenAI service and incurring costs.

The plugin uses the Dev Proxy [language model configuration](../how-to/use-language-model.md) to communicate with a local language model. To use this plugin, configure Dev Proxy to use a local language model.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The accuracy of the responses generated by the plugin depends on the local language model that you use. Before deploying your app to production, be sure to test it with the language model that you plan to use in production.

The `OpenAIMockResponsePlugin` plugin simulates completions and chat completions. The plugin doesn't support other OpenAI API endpoints.

## Next step

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Simulate Azure OpenAI API](../how-to/simulate-azure-openai.md)
